0.10.15 blog post (#67)
endless-sky/endless-sky.github.io: _posts/2025-09-27-unstable-release-0.10.15.md

---
layout: post
title: Unstable release 0.10.15
author: Saugia
---

Version 0.10.15 of Endless Sky is now live on Github, Steam, and GOG! This is an Unstable release, and with it comes new content, bug fixes, mechanics, and the likes. It is a lighter release compared to previous unstable releases, but there are plenty of changes to go around. If you'd like to know the full extent of changes made, you may visit our [changelog](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/blob/v0.10.15/changelog). For now, here are some of the highlights of this release:

Something often brought up is the inability to control where mission cargo or bunks are used between flagships and escorts. Often is the case where an escort will have an important passenger or cargo and falls behind the flagship, or sometimes the player is unaware that the cargo is on their escort to begin with until the turn-in point. In the Preferences and within the Settings tab, you will now see an option provided by TomGoodIdea that allows you to set priority use for your flagship - for passengers, cargo, both, or none.

> It's hard to control a newly captured ship, especially when it's being operated by only a fraction of its original crew. What's even harder to deal with is when the AI constantly overshoots and fails to land the ship, often taking several times before succeeding. Thanks to NobodyIII and help from @tibetiroka, the AI autopilot's ability to land an under-crewed ship has been improved, and should overshoot far less.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's hard to control a newly captured ship, especially when it's being operated by only a fraction of its original crew. What's even harder to deal with is when the AI constantly overshoots and fails to land the ship, often taking several times before succeeding. Thanks to NobodyIII with help from tibetiroka, the AI autopilot's ability to land an under-crewed ship has been improved, and should overshoot far less.
```

We still haven't forgotten about one of everyone's favorite features! After having spent time in TomGoodIdea's oven, the Hold Fire command is now back! You can find it right in the Preferences panel, where you can edit the key binding for it. Hopefully it's not overcooked this time!

Although there is no one large content addition this update, you will find several new and continued missions/mission chains. These range from hovercraft racing bets, a racer going on a ride of their own, more investment with the Syndicate, the will of a late captain, and whispers lurking over in The Graveyard. I'll let you go out and explore their contents rather than explain them here. Shout-outs to all those involved: TheGiraffe3, RisingLeaf, bene-dictator, Daeridanii1, reticent-rem, and beccabunny! 

> On the side, while several Wanderer ships are waiting for their debut in future Wanderer story, the Heavy Gust, will now appear after the Autumn Leaf is available. Similar to the comparison between the Summer Leaf and the Autumn Leaf, the Heavy Gust is a more militarized counterpart of the Strong Wind, and will be purchasable once you obtain the Wanderer's Military License. You can think of it as a lighter, faster alternative to the Tempest from DoomKorath and Saugia.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the side, while several Wanderer ships are waiting for their debut in future Wanderer story, the Heavy Gust will now appear shortly after the Autumn Leaf is available. Similar to the comparison between the Summer Leaf and the Autumn Leaf, the Heavy Gust is a more militarized counterpart of the Strong Wind, and will be purchasable once you obtain the Wanderer Military License. You can think of it as a lighter, faster alternative to the Tempest from Quantumshark and Saugia.
```
